Beetles are insects that form the order Coleoptera (/koʊliːˈɒptərə/), in the superorder Holometabola. 
Their front pair of wings are hardened into wing-cases, elytra, distinguishing them from most other insects. 
The Coleoptera, with about 400,000 described species, is the largest of all orders, constituting almost 40% of described insects and 25% of all known animal species;new species are discovered frequently, with estimates suggesting that there are between 0.9 and 2.1 million total species.
However, the number of beetle species is challenged by the number of species in dipterans (flies) and hymenopterans (wasps).
Found in almost every habitat except the sea and the polar regions, they interact with their ecosystems in several ways: beetles often feed on plants and fungi, break down animal and plant debris, and eat other invertebrates.
Some species are serious agricultural pests, such as the Colorado potato beetle, while others such as Coccinellidae (ladybirds or ladybugs) eat aphids, scale insects, thrips, and other plant-sucking insects that damage crops. 
Some others also have unusual characteristics, such as fireflies, which use a light-emitting organ for mating and communication purposes.
Beetles typically have a particularly hard exoskeleton including the elytra, though some such as the rove beetles have very short elytra while blister beetles have softer elytra. 
The general anatomy of a beetle is quite uniform and typical of insects, although there are several examples of novelty, such as adaptations in water beetles which trap air bubbles under the elytra for use while diving. 
Beetles are holometabolans, which means that they undergo complete metamorphosis, with a series of conspicuous and relatively abrupt changes in body structure between hatching and becoming adult after a relatively immobile pupal stage. 
Some, such as stag beetles, have a marked sexual dimorphism, the males possessing enormously enlarged mandibles which they use to fight other males. 
Many beetles are aposematic, with bright colors and patterns warning of their toxicity, while others are harmless Batesian mimics of such insects. 
Many beetles, including those that live in sandy places, have effective camouflage.
